Introduction
------------

The Pencil Code Meeting 2009 will take place August 24-28 2009 at the
Max Planck Institute for Astronomy (MPIA), in Heidelberg, Germany. 
At the time of writing, the number of registrants is of 24, being 
9 local (from MPIA), and 2 from outside Europe.

The Pencil Code is a multipurpose code for massively parallel computing. 
It includes optionally hydrodynamics, magnetic fields, radiation, ionization, 
multi-species dust dynamics with coagulation, self-gravity and particles. It 
is developed and maintained under Subversion (SVN) by around 25 people with 
check-in permission and has been downloaded by around 500 registered users 
(without check-in permission). The code is tested nightly on several platforms 
and provides an excellent pedagogical tool for professional scientists as well 
as students to implement new code within an organized framework.

#The Pencil Code is a multipurpose magnetohydrodynamical (MHD) code for
#massively parallel computing.

About the meeting
-----------------

The Pencil Code User Meeting is an annual meeting dedicated to the Pencil 
Code. The purpose of the meeting is to bring regular users and core developers 
together to discuss scientific and technical progress since the last meeting, 
to instigate collaborative projects and to allow new users to learn more 
about the code and to interact with other users and developers.

Here are some example topics that the meeting aims at covering:

    * Recent science results obtained with the Pencil Code
    * Physics recently added to the code, such as particle collisions
    * Recently added visualization techniques, such as on-the-fly 
        3D rendering and spherical slices
    * Technical issues
    * Future improvements to the code 

Budget
------

Of the 15 non-local participants, 10 will eligible for travel 
support, based on their junior positions (PhD students, young
postdocs) or on positions in institutions that are not able to provide
travel support. A conference dinner should also be included, for all 
participants.

The estimated costs are (in Euro)

  Travel       : 3,000 (10 x 1 x 300)
  Accomodation : 4,000 (10 x 5 x  80)
  Per diem     : 1,000 (10 x 5 x  20)
  Dinner       : 1,000 (25 x 1 x  40)

MPIA has kindly offered a conference room free of charge.

Co-funding
----------

Funding requests will be submitted to the following:

  * Astrosim
    http://www.astrosim.net/

  * German Science Foundation (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft)
    http://

